---
title: Addons
group: Documents
category: Features
---
# Addons

Addons are H5P libraries that can be added to the H5P Editor or to certain H5P
content without changing the content itself or the content type. They are a
little-known feature of the H5P core and currently the only publicly known
example of an addon is the [H5P.MathDisplay
addon](https://h5p.org/mathematical-expressions), which uses MathJax to display
mathematical formulas. Addons provide a simple and reusable way of customizing
behavior and looks of H5P content types. This allows site administrators to
customize H5P without programming knowledge or the need to fork content types.

## Using addons (for site administrators)

To use an addon on your site, you must upload the addon file through the library
management site. You **cannot** upload addons in the normal way you would upload
a H5P package with content, as the .h5p files of addons don't contain any
content and won't pass validation!

Depending on the configuration of the addon and your server, the addon will now
be automatically loaded in certain situations. As the only addon currently is
H5P.MathDisplay, the procedure of getting addons to load will be explained with
it below:

**Player:** The MathDisplay addon will automatically be used in the player
whenever needed, as the server scans content for a search string specified by
the addon. You can also force the use of addons by setting the configuration
property `playerAddons` of your configuration:

```javascript
{
    // ... further configuration values ...
    "playerAddons": {
        "H5P.CoursePresentation": ["H5P.MathDisplay"]
    }
    // ... further configuration values ...
}
```

**Editor:** The MathDisplay addon will **not** be automatically enabled in the
editor. There are two ways to enable it:

1. Use a custom H5P.MathDisplay addon, that uses a lumieducation extension to
   avoid the server-wide configuration below.

2. Set the configuration property `editorAddons` in your implementation of
   {@link @lumieducation/h5p-server!IH5PConfig} to something like:

   ```javascript
    {
        // ... further configuration values ...
        "editorAddons": {
            "H5P.CoursePresentation": [ "H5P.MathDisplay" ],
            "H5P.InteractiveVideo": [ "H5P.MathDisplay" ],
            "H5P.DragQuestion": [ "H5P.MathDisplay" ]
        }
        // ... further configuration values ...
    }
   ```

   Now the editor will load the H5P.MathDisplay library if a user opens the
   editor of one these three content types (these are the three content types
   for which the PHP implementation also loads addons).

## Customizing addon behavior

Addons can be configured by setting the property `libraryConfig` of your
configuration implementation of {@link @lumieducation/h5p-server!IH5PConfig | IH5PConfig}.
The property is a complex object with H5P library machine names as keys. The
object is sent to the H5P client (run in the browser) as part of the
H5PIntegration object and can be accessed in a H5P library by calling
`H5P.getLibraryConfig('H5P.MachineName')`.

Example (shows how to (optionally) configure the [H5P.MathDisplay
addon](https://h5p.org/mathematical-expressions)):

```javascript
"libraryConfig": {
        "H5P.MathDisplay": {
            "observers": [
                { "name": "mutationObserver", "params": { "cooldown": 500 } },
                { "name": "domChangedListener" },
                { "name": "interval", "params": { "time": 1000 } }
            ],
            "renderer": {
                "mathjax": {
                    "src": "https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.5/MathJax.js",
                    "config": {
                        "extensions": ["tex2jax.js"],
                        "jax": ["input/TeX", "output/HTML-CSS"],
                        "tex2jax": {
                            "ignoreClass": "ckeditor",
                            "processEscapes": true
                        },
                        "messageStyle": "none"
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
```

## Creating addons (for developers)

Addons also use the .h5p file extension but don't have the same structure as
regular h5p packages: they only contain folders with libraries and no `h5p.json`
file or content. The library folders are basically like regular H5P libraries,
as they contain a `library.json` file, but they can't contain `semantics.json`.
The metadata in `library.json` is mostly the same as the metadata of normal
libraries, but it contains the property `addTo`, which makes a library to an
addon. (Check out the comprehensive structure of library metadata in the
TypeScript interface {@link @lumieducation/h5p-server!ILibraryMetadata}.)

A library containing the property `addTo` in its metadata will be automatically
added to the player (or editor) by the server in certain circumstances:

* Always when loading the editor, if set in the global configuration of the
  server (see above).

* When playing content, only if the content contains a regex search string. The
  search string is set by setting this property:

  ```javascript
  {
      // ... more metadata ...
      "addTo": {
          "content": {
              "types": [
                  {
                      "text": {
                          "regex": "/your regex string/" // the regex string must start and end with a slash!
                      }
                  }
              ]
          }
      }
      // ... more metadata ...
  }
  ```

  The configuration above means that the addon is added to every player instance
  if the regex is matched in any `string` property of the content parameters.

* Always when loading the editor if requested in the metadata like this:

  ```javascript
  {
      // ... more metadata ...
      "addTo": {
          "editor": [ "H5P.CoursePresentation", "H5P.InteractiveVideo" ]
      }
      // ... more metadata ...
  }
  ```

  _Note that this way of enabling addons in the editor is a custom lumieducation
  extension of the library metadata structure and is **not** supported by the
  PHP implementation and might change in the future if this feature is
  implemented by Joubel's PHP implementation in another way._

* Always when loading the play if requested in the metadata like this:

  ```javascript
  {
      // ... more metadata ...
      "addTo": {
          "player": [ "H5P.CoursePresentation", "H5P.InteractiveVideo" ]
      }
      // ... more metadata ...
  }
  ```

  _Note that this way of enabling addons in the player is a custom lumieducation
  extension of the library metadata structure and is **not** supported by the
  PHP implementation and might change in the future if this feature is
  implemented by Joubel's PHP implementation in another way._

When an addon is loaded in the editor or the player, the JavaScript and CSS
files listed at `preloadedJs` and `preloadedCss` are loaded in the HTML file
after the actual library is loaded.
