---
title: Basic completion tracking
group: Documents
category: Features
---

# Basic completion tracking

The H5P client is capable of sending a message to the server when the user has
completed a content object. This includes the time when this occurred, how long
the content was open, the achieved score and the maximum score.

While technically this message is derived from a xAPI statement generated by the
content types, it **is not the same as xAPI** and is a completely separate
system that co-exists with xAPI and a potential LRS. You can enable completion
tracking and xAPI tracking independently.

If you want to capture all xAPI statements, which allows you to have very
detailed tracking, you either have to inject your own xAPI capturing JavaScript
or use the xAPI capabilities of the {@link
@lumieducation/h5p-webcomponents!H5PPlayerComponent} in {@link
"@lumieducation/h5p-webcomponents"} (or the corresponding functionality in
{@link "@lumieducation/h5p-react"}).

## How it works

- When the user presses "check", a xAPI statement indicating completion is
  generated by the content type (that supports it). The H5P client captures it
  and calls an AJAX route on the H5P server with basic information.
- The H5P server saves the completion data in a special storage system. The
  server automatically deletes the data when the content object is deleted.

## Limitations

- While the storage classes support retrieving and deleting the completion
  data, there are no endpoints on the {@link "@lumieducation/h5p-express"}
  package that implement this functionality. You have to implement these
  endpoints yourself.
- Not all content types emit xAPI statements indicating completion and thus
  the tracking isn't fired.

## Enabling completion tracking

- Create an instance of {@link
  @lumieducation/h5p-server!IContentUserDataStorage}. The recommended storage
  class for production is {@link
  @lumieducation/h5p-mongos3!MongoContentUserDataStorage} in the {@link
  "@lumieducation/h5p-mongos3"} package. There's also a {@link
  @lumieducation/h5p-server!fsImplementations.FileContentUserDataStorage}
  in the {@link "@lumieducation/h5p-server"} package that you can use for
  development or testing purposes.
- Pass the implementation of {@link
  @lumieducation/h5p-server!IContentUserDataStorage | IContentUserDataStorage}
  into the {@link @lumieducation/h5p-server!H5PEditor.constructor | H5PEditor
  constructor} constructor and {@link
  @lumieducation/h5p-server!H5PPlayer.constructor | H5PPlayer constructor}.
- Set `setFinishedEnabled` in {@link @lumieducation/h5p-server!IH5PConfig} to
  `true`.
- If you use {@link @lumieducation/h5p-express!h5pAjaxExpressRouter}, then the
  routes for the AJAX endpoint are automatically created. You can manually turn
  them on by setting `routeFinishedData` in the options when creating the route.
- If you don't use `h5pAjaxExpressRouter`, you have to route everything
  manually. First get {@link @lumieducation/h5p-server!ContentUserDataManager}
  from {@link @lumieducation/h5p-server!H5PEditor | H5PEditor} or {@link
  @lumieducation/h5p-server!H5PPlayer | H5PPlayer}. Route this endpoint and
  return HTTP status code 200 with a JSON object that is based on {@link
  @lumieducation/h5p-server!AjaxSuccessResponse} with empty payload:
- POST {{setFinishedUrl}}/ -> {@link
  @lumieducation/h5p-server!ContentUserDataManager.setFinished}

## Configuration options

- You can customize the URL to which the AJAX calls are made by setting
  `setFinishedUrl` in {@link @lumieducation/h5p-server!IH5PConfig | IH5PConfig}.
- You can enable or disable the feature by setting `setFinishedEnabled` in
  {@link @lumieducation/h5p-server!IH5PConfig | IH5PConfig}.

## Security considerations

You should implement CSRF tokens when using completion tracking as the POST
endpoint would otherwise by vulnerable to CSRF attacks when using cookie
authentication. The tokens are added to the endpoint URL in the IUrlGenerator
implementation and thus sent to the server whenever a POST call is made. Check
out the REST example on how to pass the CSRF token to the H5P server components
and how to check its validity.
